> **Markdown help:** See [markdown-guide.md](../pages/markdown-guide.md) for formatting tips and a reflection template.
# Week 1 Reflection

Reflect 1: What counts as “making” in the age of AI? What might be gained/lost when machines participate in making?

"Making," in the age of AI, is a term that has layers of meaning behind it. There is different perceived value attached to an image "made" by a person prompting an AI such as DALL·E 3, versus an oil painting by Michael Chen. There is little effort associated with AI generation of text, images, videos, and the like, as opposed to the efforts recognized when artists paint, photographers capture the moment, and authors write. This isn't to say that the use of AI in the making process produces worthless results, rather, that it should be used in moderation to expand upon existing human works and ideas. Grammar edits on an essay, shading and blending tips on a drawing, things of that nature. More examples of what can be gained by using machines to make is time and more widely accessible education. AI completes tasks quickly and can explain concepts as if it were a teacher, making the learning process easier to handle for beginners and more comprehensible for those who need extra help. Unfortunately, there are also quite a few losses associated with AI. Intellectual property rights are constantly violated when training AI, leading to conflicts in ownership between the user, the original author, and the AI's parent company. Creativity and learning can take a hit as well, since quiz answers and painted canvasses can appear with a simple prompt instead of hours of practice and studying. The last and biggest issue is the problem with responsibility. A prime example is Twitter's built in AI, Grok. Some users are prompting it to edit existing image posts in illegal, inappropriate ways, such as using it to sexualize images of minors. Responsibility cannot be placed on the machine, so the debate is about which entity should be held responsible: the user who prompted it, or the parent company, xAI? All in all, AI, if used sparingly and ethically, may yet prove to be more beneficial than not for humans.